- [Nana Voiceover] If I saw
everyone again right now,
I know that I'd depend
on them just as much
as I did back then.
I'm scared of that.
That's why I can't move
from this spot.
(crackling sound)
- [Hachi Voiceover] Hey
Nana, the midsummer flowers
are blooming along the
Tama river again this year.
We're all waiting for
you in apartment 707.
I had matching yukata
made for us too.
(heavy rock music)
(cicadas chirping)
(wooden shoes clacking)
(cicadas chirping loudly)
(cicadas chirping intensifies)
(girl gasping)
(wooden sandal clacking)
- [Satsuki] Aw!
(insect wings flapping)
(wooden shoes clacking)
- [Hachi] Satsuki!
- Huh?
- If you keep dawdling like
that, I'm gonna leave you here.
- [Satsuki] But Mom!
I almost got a butterfly!
A real butterfly!
- [Woman] Hm?
- [Satsuki] It was big and
black and really pretty.
It's a rare one!
I saw it in my book.
(ashtray clacking)
- [Yasu] Hm. Sounds like
it was a black swallowtail.
- [Satsuki] Black swallowtail?
So it's not a butterfly?
- [Yasu] No, it is a butterfly.
They just call that type a
swallowtail.
(paper fan flapping)
- How is a black swallowtail
different
from a regular butterfly?
- Man, oh man.
The way you talk, Satsuki,
reminds me of Shin.
I had to explain everything to
him.
- How come?
- Well, I suppose you could say
he was like a six year
old back then.
(Hachi softly laughing)
- [Shin] What's that you
were saying about me?
(Satsuki gasping)
- Shin, You look so dashing.
It really looks good on you.
- [Shin] Really?
(sentimental music)
How are you supposed to
tie this thing anyway?
- I'll tie it for you.
- [Shin] Thanks.
Could you do it in a cool
butterfly bow like yours?
- Yours has to be different,
and mine isn't called a
butterfly bow,
It's a hana bunko.
It's how young girls
tie their obi, not boys.
- Really? Then you can't
wear it either.
- Why don't you shut up?
(Shin softly laughing)
(gentle piano music)
Tonight is the annual Tama
River fireworks festival.
No matter how busy our lives get
or how far away we all
live from each other,
every year we meet up in this
apartment.
(heavy footsteps
on stairs)
Even though we still carry
the same pain inside.
(metal tab popping)
(fizzy drink pouring)
- [Nobu] Uh, thanks. That's
enough for me.
If I drink too much now, I'll
pass out before the fireworks.
(Hachi softly laughing)
Yasu, how is it that you
always look the same?
It's like you're a living
fossil.
(Shin laughing)
- It's only been a few months
since the last time you saw me.
- [Nobu] No, I mean, you
haven't changed at all
since high school.
You know, I bet you'd be the
same
if you lived a thousand years.
- But you haven't changed
much either, Nobu.
You're still as short as ever.
(Nobu spluttering)
- Shut up, dude!
- [Hachi] Nobu?
Why don't you have a quick
shower
and then afterwards you can
change into your yukata.
- Thanks. Good idea.
But would you mind drawing a
bath for me?
- All right, all right.
Your wish is my
command, little boy.
- Hey, where's Ren?
Is he coming?
- [Hachi] He said he'd get here
just before the fireworks start.
- That guy always marches
to the beat of his own drum.
- Here you go, Satsuki!
I got this for you.
(Satsuki gasping)
- [Satsuki] It's Yumako!
- Did you get me one?
- No way.
- Mommy, look, it's yumako!
And she's dressed up in a
yukata!
(Hachi gasping)
- It's so cute!
Thanks so much, Nobu!
I'm completely in love with
this retro doll collection.
- [Nobu] I didn't
buy it for you!
(Hachi growling)
- Isn't that great, Satsuki?
Say thanks to the nice old man.
- Old man?
(Shin laughing)
- Thank you very much, Nobu.
(Nobu gasping, then laughing
softly)
- [Hachi Voiceover] The
slow movement of time
purges the past and heals the
wounds in people's hearts.
But there are some wounds
that can't heal.
This apartment is just
like it was back then.
Here, time stands still.
(tap squeaking)
(water splashing and dripping)
(underwater sloshing)
- [Hachi Voiceover] Wait, Nana!
I have to tell you
about me and Nobu!
(water splashing)
- [Nana] So what's
up with Nobuo?
- [Nobu] Nana?
What are you doing?
- Bath salts.
Can you smell the citrus?
(Nobu humming sadly)
You don't need to worry about
me.
I'm fine now.
(gentle chiming music)
It's hot.
I put out a towel for you too,
little man.
(Nobu gasping)
(sad music box theme playing)
- [Hachi Voiceover] Hey, Nana-
There are so many things I
want to talk to you about now.
In this apartment, all
I can see are memories.
(fireworks banging
and whistling)
- Look at that!
Isn't it awesome?
- You got the best view.
- If we could watch the
fireworks from here,
then we don't really need
disguises.
- Uh-huh.
Wait a minute, where's Hachiko?
She should be here by now.
- Maybe Takumi found out and
wouldn't let her come see us.
- I doubt it. That guy wouldn't
get hung up about something
like a night of fireworks.
- [Yasu] She's gotta
show up at some point.
After all, no news is good news.
- No way, it means
something's gone wrong.
(Hachi sobbing)
- [Hachi] I'd better hurry up.
Everyone's waiting for me.
If I let them down this
time and not show up,
they'll think of me as a
traitor for sure.
But for some reason
I can't stop crying.
- Goodbye, Nana.
- [Hachi] I thought I'd
feel better
once we talked things
over,
that it'd bring some
sort of closure.
But now I realize that I
felt the most comfortable
when I was with Shoji.
We were good friends
before we went out.
I thought that once the
breakup drama died down,
things could go back to
the way they used to be.
(Hachi sobbing)
But now I've really
lost him forever.
I shouldn't have taken
him for granted.
(cellphone jingle playing)
What should I do?
If I see Nobu now,
there's no way I can talk
to him and act normal.
I'll get sad and start crying
like crazy all over again.
- I guess we've all gotta live
with the choices we've made.
- What should I do?
I can't just ditch them
without giving them some
sort of explanation.
(cellphone jingle continues)
If I'm not gonna go, I've
gotta tell them something.
(cellphone button beeping)
- [Nana] Hello? Hachiko?
(fireworks crackling)
- [Hachi] Nana?
- [Nana] Where are you?
- I'm just outside of Jackson's.
- [Nana] Oh, okay, well, hurry
up!
The fireworks have
already started.
(Hachi stifling her cries)
- [Hachi] I'm so sorry.
I don't think I can make it.
(tense music)
- Why not?
(Hachi sobbing)
Hey, why are you crying?
What happened?
- [Hachi] It's 'cos I'm scared.
Scared of seeing Nobu.
(Hachi's sobbing intensifies)
(tragic music)
- You don't need to worry,
because Nobu isn't even
gonna show up.
(fireworks banging)
I tell you that boy hasn't got
any balls, that's for sure.
He backed out at the last
minute.
I can't believe what a chicken
he is.
So you've got nothing
to worry about.
Just hurry up and get over here.
Shin and Yasu are
dying to see you.
Don't bail on us now at
the last minute.
And you know, I really
wanna see you, Hachiko.
So please hurry.
(Hachi gasping)
- Okay-
(cellphone beeping)
(heavy footsteps)
- Where do you think
you're going, Nobuo?
- I'm going home.
She doesn't wanna see me
so I can't stay.
- [Nana] Hold on a second,
she didn't say that!
She said she's scared
of seeing you!
Don't you get it, she's
still in love with you!
- Stop twisting things around
to how you want them to be.
- Listen to me.
I know what she's going through.
I know what it's like to
be so scared
of being swept away again
that you just can't face that
person!
She's gonna be getting married
to Takumi in only two weeks.
It's right in front of her.
But if she got back
together with you,
then she would be stuck in
an impossible situation.
So of course she's scared.
(Nobu humming nervously)
- All the more reason why
I shouldn't stay here.
- God, why can't you
just get stuck with her?
All right, fine.
I get it, you just wanted to
comfort her.
First, when she got
dumped by Shoji.
And then when she was
getting played by Takumi.
You never really did love her.
- [Nobu] I do love her!
What the hell do you know?
- [Nana] Right. Like you
love that girl in the room
next to you?
You know, she's got the
same condition as me.
Ginpei told me.
She can't even work if she
doesn't take her medication.
- What the hell does that
matter?
She's a good person and she's
trying, despite all that.
- Ever since I met you in high
school,
you always liked to go for
the girls who had problems.
Girls you thought needed to
be rescued from something.
That way you could step up
and play the part of
the hero, right?
- Come on, Nana. Cut it out.
- But whenever things
start to get serious,
you can't handle it.
All you do is give up on them.
- Nobu, you know she's
just provoking you.
Don't take any of it seriously.
(Nobu breathing intensely)
- Hmm.
I'd call that the easy way out.
(tense electronic music)
(fireworks whistling and
crackling)
- Nana can be really cruel
when she wants to be.
She's manipulating them,
putting them in an
impossible situation.
The way she confronted Nobu,
of course he's gonna
react to it and get angry.
And Hachi will end up getting
hurt
even more than she
already has been.
The thing is, Nobu's a pacifist.
He doesn't want
anyone to suffer.
He'll sacrifice his own
happiness to make sure
that everyone else is happy.
Avoiding conflict doesn't mean
you're taking the easy way out.
At least, that's what I think.
- Yeah. I agree.
He's locked in a battle
against everything he desires.
- [Vendor] How many?
- Hm?
- [Vendor] Hey, miss, how many
you want?
- Just three.
- [Nobu] I'll do whatever
it takes to make you happy.
(doorbell ringing)
- [Nana Voiceover] And you know,
I really wanna see you, Hachiko.
So please hurry.
(soaring guitar music)
But if she got back together
with you,
then she would be stuck in
an impossible situation.
(fireworks banging)
- It's been so long since
I've seen these fireworks.
They really are pretty.
- This is the first
time I've ever had food
from a street vendor.
- Huh?
- You know, it tastes really
good.
But it's hard to eat with
these stupid chopsticks.
(Yasu groaning)
- I wonder if any of
these stands have forks-
- Wait, don't spoil him!
He just needs to practice.
- [Yasu] Hey!
(cellphone jingle ringing)
Don't grab me like that!
My wig almost fell off.
(Nana laughing)
- [Nana] Your wig!
(Nana laughing hysterically)
- Yeah, hello?
- Hi, Shin?
- [Shin] Hey, what's up?
- I'm outside the apartment,
but no one's answering the door.
(Shin gasping)
Did you guys already leave
to go see the fireworks?
(firework banging)
Because the lights are
still on the apartment.
Where are you?
Shin?
- Hm.
Yeah, we couldn't wait any
longer so we decided to leave.
I'm sorry.
(Hachi laughing softly)
- No, I'm sorry, I'm
the one who's late.
I'll head down there right now.
Where exactly are you
watching them from?
(Hachi's footsteps echoing)
Yeah, I think I know
where that is.
I'll call you if I
can't find you.
what? You're in drag?
(Hachi giggling)
(fireworks banging)
- [Nana Voiceover] God,
why can't you just get
stuck with her?
(Nobu sniffling)
I'd call that the easy way out.
- Hey, over here!
- [Hachi] Oh my God! Shin?
You're so cute!
- [Shin] Come on, we're
all sitting down here.
(fireworks exploding)
- They're beautiful!
Amazing!
- (high-pitched) They really
are pretty, aren't they?
- Stop it, Shin!
You sound like Misato
when you talk like that.
(Shin and Hachi giggling)
- That's a big rock
you got on your finger.
(Nana humming nervously)
Speaking of which, I get why
you didn't wanna invite Nobu,
but why didn't you send
me an invitation?
You did invite Yasu and Shin.
- You mean you'd really come?
- Well. Yeah, of course
I'd come.
I could even sing you a
punk version of
"Tentoumushi Samba" if
you wanted.
- what's that? What kind
of song is it?
- I'll get you the CD
so we can arrange it.
You'll play the guitar part.
- You'd better be happy
no matter what, okay?
- Mm?
(somber guitar music)
- I think you know that
Nobu stepped aside
so that you could be happy.
So if you end up sad
or depressed,
then it was all for nothing.
Well, I'm sure that Takumi
is gonna make you cry
from time to time,
but you're the fool who
fell in love with him.
So I'm afraid you're just
gonna have to deal with it.
And don't get upset when he
cheats on you now and then,
all right?
Just smack him around
until you feel better.
- Yeah, you're right.
Thank you, Nana.
- [Hachi Voiceover] That night,
the riverbank was
packed with people,
and I never did bump into
Shoji or his girlfriend.
It felt like a curtain
had finally fallen on
our relationship.
There was such a big crowd that
you could easily lose sight
of the people you were with.
So I wanted to hold Nana's hand,
but I was worried she'd be
annoyed
if I innocently grabbed
her hand, which was as warm
as Nobu's.
The wind on my fingertips
was freezing cold.
Actually, come to think of it,
summer ended long
ago, didn't it?
(car engine humming)
- Did you guys have fun at the
fireworks?
I hope you're all rested and
ready to get back to work.
(Ginpei gasping, confused)
(Ginpei groaning)
(somber guitar music continues)
- [Hachi Voiceover] Hey Nana,
that summer you longed
for more than anyone?
The one we couldn't get back?
Well, it's here now.
I'll always be waiting.
For 10 years,
20 years,
50 years.
Hey, Nana?